---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: Associate Professor

profile:
  align: right
  image: Hantao-Cui-2024.jpg
  image_circular: true # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <div style="white-space: nowrap;">
    <p class="department-name">Electrical and Computer Engineering</p><br>
    <p class="university-name"><span class="nc-state">NC STATE</span> <span class="university">UNIVERSITY</span></p>
    </div>
    <p><a href="/cv/">Curriculum Vitae</a></p>

selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page

announcements:
  enabled: true # includes a list of news items
  scrollable: true # adds a vertical scroll bar if there are more than 3 news items
  limit: 5 # leave blank to include all the news in the `_news` folder

latest_posts:
  enabled: true
  scrollable: true # adds a vertical scroll bar if there are more than 3 new posts items
  limit: 3 # leave blank to include all the blog posts
---

Hantao Cui is an associate professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at
North Carolina State University. Prior to joining NC State, he was an assistant
professor at Oklahoma State University from 2021 to 2024. He earned his Ph.D. in
Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville (2018),
following his M.S. (2013) and B.S. (2011) in the same field from Southeast
University, China. He is the author of [ANDES](https://github.com/curent/andes)
for power systems modeling and analysis, and a recipient of the NSF CAREER
Award. Previously, he served as the Chief Technologist of the
[CURENT](https://curent.utk.edu) Large-Scale Testbed (LTB), a winner of the 2020
R&D 100 Awards. He is the Chair of the [IEEE PES Computer and
Analytical Methods Subcommittee (CAMS)](https://cmte.ieee.org/pes-cams/) and has
been an Associate Editor of the [Journal of Modern Power Systems and Clean
Energy](http://www.mpce.info) since 2019. He is a Senior Member of the IEEE.

Dr. Cui leads the Power CyberInfrastructure (PowerCI) Lab at NC State with a
vision of a secure, resilient, and sustainable future power grid through
advanced computational methods and cyber-physical system integration. The lab
distinguishes itself through open science, developing next-generation
computational infrastructure and analytical tools for power systems. This
commitment is demonstrated through widely-used open-source tools like
[ANDES](https://docs.andes.app) and training materials like
[PowerCyber Training](https://powercybertraining.github.io) to serve the broader
power systems community. 

The PowerCI Lab welcomes students and researchers who are passionate about power
systems and computational methods, particularly those interested in both
theoretical foundations and practical implementations. To learn more about who
we are, what we do, and how to join our lab, please visit our [group page](/group/).

Dr. Cui actively seeks industry partnerships with utility companies, renewable
energy developers, and technology firms for grid modernization. His lab brings
comprehensive expertise in industry-standard power system software (PSS/E,
PowerWorld, PSCAD, EMTP, OPAL-RT, OpenDSS) and programming languages (Python,
C++, Julia), and data analytics tools. The lab specializes in developing and
deploying computational solutions that address real-world grid challenges.
